# Assignment2-1--PythonProgramming


1.Given two numbers, print their sum. However, if the two numbers are the same, return double their sum. input : num1 = 10 ,num2 = 10 expected output => (10 + 10)*2 = 40 input : num1 = 5 , num2 = 10 expected output => (5 + 10) = 15

2.Given a Cost price and Selling price of a product,write program to calculate profit or loss. Profit : if Selling Price > Cost Price Loss : if Selling Price < Cost Price

input : cost price = 100 , selling price = 200 expected output => Profit of 100. input : cost price = 50 , selling price = 20 expected output => Loss of 30

3.Write a program to check whether triangle is valid or not if angles are given. Valid Triangle : Sum of all the angles should be 180 All the angles should be greater than zero

4.Write a program to find out max from the given list of numbers.Also print the index of that element

Input: nums = [10,50,20,90,60,30] max => 90,index is 3

5.Write a program to generate 20 fibonacci series numbers. The Fibonacci numbers are the numbers in the following integer sequence. 0, 1, 1, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144,...

Initial values for fibonacci series: num1 = 0 , num2 = 1 next number is generated by adding adding num1 and num2

6.Write a program to capitalize the vowels from a given string Input string : "Python sample input string" Expected output:"PythOn sAmplE InpUt strIng"

7.Write a program to check if a given string is a valid floating point number or not Input : "14.55" : Valid Floating number "1455." : Invalid floating point number ".144" : Invalid floating point number

8.Write a program to perfrom the matcrix addition. a = [[10,20,30], [40,50,60], [70,80,90]] b = [[1,2,3], [4,5,6], [7,8,9]]

output : c = [[11,22,33], [44,55,66], [77,88,99]]

9.Write a program to count the number of occurances of a number from list and store the number and its count in a dict. nums = [10,10,20,10,30,20] Expected output : num_count = {10:3,20:1,30:1}

10.Given a dictionary that contains mapping of employee and his manager { "A", "C" }, { "B", "C" }, { "C", "F" }, { "D", "E" }, { "E", "F" }, { "F", "F" } create a list of managers and directly reporting eployees to that manager Expected output : { "C" : ["A", "B"], "E" : ["D"], "F" : ["C", "E", "F"] } 
10.2. Write a Python program to combine two dictionary adding values for common keys. d1 = {'a': 100, 'b': 200, 'c':300} d2 = {'a': 300, 'b': 200, 'e':400} Expected output: d3 = {'a': 400, 'b': 400, 'c': 300, 'e': 400}

11.Write a function to convert a given integer (in seconds) to hours, minutes and seconds and return the answer in H:M:S using positional arg passing technique.

12.Given a dictionary of items & their unit prices and the items bought & the quantity, write a function to calculate the total cost of the items plus a given tax using variable length keyword args. If item doesn't exist, the item is ignored. Output should be rounded to two decimal places.

Input : {"A":2500,"B":1000,"C":500,"D":450} Items bought : A, Quantity : 2 Items bought : B, Quantity : 3 Items bought : D, Quantity : 1

Tax = 18%
13.Write a function to add all key value pairs to a dict from nested dictionary.

Eg: {

“username”: “ABC”

“channel” : {

     Id : 101

    “name”: ”XYZ”

}

}

Expected output: { “username” : “ABC”, ’ Id’ : 101, “name”: ”XYZ”}

14.Write a program to input electricity unit charge and calculate the total electricity bill according to the given conditions:

For the first 50 units Rs. 0.50/unit
For the next 100 units Rs. 0.75/unit
For the next 100 units Rs. 1.20/unit
For unit above 250 Rs. 1.50/unit
Also, an additional surcharge of 20% should be added to the bill.

15.Given 2 numbers, a for the purchase amount in rupees, and b for the quality of service(1-5) received, Calculate the tip according to the following table

Quality Tip Percent
1 5%
2 10%
3 15%
4 20%
5 25%

16.Given 3 strings: first, second, and third. Third String is said to be a shuffle of first and second if it can be formed by interleaving the characters of first and second String in a way that maintains the left to right ordering of the characters from each string.

For example, given first = "abc" and second = "def", third = "dabecf" is a valid shuffle since it preserves the character ordering of the two strings. Given these 3 strings write a program that detects whether the third String is a valid shuffle of first and second String.

17.Write a program to count the number of occurrences of a word in below sentenses. 

Input : "Python has traditionally checked the up-to-dateness of bytecode cache files by comparing the source metadata with source metadata saved in the cache file header when it was generated. While effective, this invalidation method has its drawbacks. When filesystem timestamps are too coarse, Python can miss source updates, leading to user confusion. Additionally, having a timestamp in the cache file is problematic for build reproducibility and content-based build systems."

Output : {"Python":2,"metadata":2,... }

18.Given a dictionary called clubs where each key is the name of a club (a string), and each value is the set of id strings for the students in the club. Write a segment of Python code that creates a set of all student ids that are in all the clubs in the dictionary

19.Write a program to merge two txt files to third txt file

20.Write a program to remove empty lines from a txt file

21.Write a program to combine each line from first file with the corresponding line in second file into the third file

22.Write a program to check if given string is valid support ticket number or not. Valid Format :

Starting 3 characters should be INC Followed by 5 char which is combination of uppercase alphabates and numbers Input : INC12A34 => Valid Support Ticket Number INC12345 => Invalid Support Ticket Number INC12#56 => Invalid Support Ticket Number

23.Write a program to check if given password is valid password or not. Valid Password : 1.Min length should be 6 and max length should be 12 2.Password should contain atleast one Upper case letter 3.Password should contain atleast 1 special character (@,!,_,$,#) 4.Password should contain atleast 1 number

24.Check if given phone number is valid international phone number as per E.164 format. E.164 numbers are formatted [+] [country code] [subscriber number] and can have a maximum of fifteen digits.
